 HW2 Evaluating Benchmarks 25 points

       You do not have to copy the questions, but show the
       computation and clearly indicate the answers.
       Be sure to label the answers with the part number.

 You are the lead designer of a new processor. The processor design
 and compiler are complete, and now you must decide whether to
 produce the current design as it stands or spend additional time
 to improve it. You discuss this problem with your engineering
 team and arrive at the following options:

 a) Leave the design as it stands. Call this the base machine, MBASE.
    It has a clock rate of 1.5GHz and the following measurements have
    been made using a simulator:

   instruction class  CPI  Frequency of use
             A         2     30%
             B         4     30%
             C         3     30% 
             D         5     10%

 b) Optimize the hardware. The hardware team claims they can improve
    the processor design to give a clock rate of 2.2GHz. Call this
    machine MOPT. The compiler team has made changes for this machine. 
    The following measurements have been made using a simulator:

   instruction class  CPI  Frequency of use
            A          2     30%
            B          3     40%
            C          4     20%
            D          5     10%

Part1: What is the CPI of MBASE?
                   CPI of MOPT? 

Part2: What is the MIPS rating of MBASE?
                   MIPS rating of MOPT?

Part3: How much faster is MOPT compared to MBASE?
       "How much faster" is a dimensionless ratio   faster/slower,
       this is called "speed up" always greater than 1.0,
       else "slow down" if less than 1.0

Part4: Using Amdahl's law:
       Suppose we enhance a machine to make all floating point
       instructions run five times faster. Look at how speedup
       behaves when we incorporate faster floating point hardware.
       If the execution time of some benchmark before floating
       point enhancement is 11 seconds total, what is the speedup
       if one-fifth of the 11 seconds was spent executing
       floating point instructions?

Part5: What is the speedup if one-half of the 11 seconds was spent
       executing floating point instructions?

Part6: How many total seconds did Part5 run?

Part7: Using Amdahl's law:
       You are going to enhance a machine and there are two possible
       improvements: Either make multiply instructions run four
       times faster than before, or make memory access instructions
       run two times faster than before. A program takes 100 seconds
       to execute before enhancement. 25% of the time is used by
       multiply instructions, 45% of the time is used by memory
       access instructions and the remaining 30% is used by other
       instructions.

   What is the speedup from just improving multiply instructions?
   What is the speedup from just improving memory access instructions?
   What is the speedup from improving both?
   (Show your work, the 100 seconds does not need to be used,
    you may just write the numbers in Amdahl's law format.)  


