WASHINGTON (CNN) -- North Korea apparently tested a short-range missile Sunday, the Bush administration said, the latest in a string of recent incidents to refocus international attention on the Korean Peninsula's nuclear standoff.

"It appears that there was a test of a short-range missile by the North Koreans and it landed in the Sea of Japan," White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card said on CNN's "Late Edition."

The day before the apparent test, North Korea called President Bush a "hooligan" and said it expected no solution of the international standoff over its nuclear program during the current U.S. administration. (Full story)

The comments by North Korea's Foreign Ministry spokesman followed a White House news conference Thursday at which Bush described North Korean leader Kim Jong Il as a "tyrant" and a "dangerous person." (Transcript)

Also Thursday, a Defense Department intelligence official said North Korea has the "theoretical capability" to arm a missile with a nuclear device and strike the United States.

Card said Sunday that the White House was "not surprised" by the apparent missile test.

"The North Koreans have tested their missiles before," he said. "They've had some failures"

Six-nation talks on persuading North Korea to curb its nuclear ambitions -- involving the two Koreas, the United States, China, Japan and Russia -- have been stalled since last June, after three inconclusive rounds.

"We have to work together with our allies around the world -- especially the Japanese, the South Koreans, the Russians and the Chinese -- to demonstrate that North Korea's actions are inappropriate," Card said. "We don't want the Korean Peninsula to have any nuclear weapons on it."

North Korea has said it will stay away from the nuclear talks until Washington apologizes for comments U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made in January, when she described the communist state as one of the world's "outposts of tyranny."

Resuming the talks gained urgency in February when North Korea said it had developed nuclear weapons and would boycott the talks indefinitely. The North has since threatened to increase its nuclear arsenal and has demanded that the United States drop what it calls a hostile policy.

Sunday, Card described Kim as "not a good leader."

He said North Koreans "are living in poverty -- many in concentration camps. They do not have any exercise of democracy or freedom. They are not allowed to contact the outside world. [Kim] is not the kind of leader that is comfortable with the rest of the world."

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Card portrayed North Korea as a target of U.S. efforts to inspire democracy around the world.

"We're doing everything we can to make sure that the people of North Korea recognize that they're being cheated and denied opportunities that come with freedom and democracy," he said.
Diplomatic disagreement

U.S. State Department spokesman Curtis Cooper issued a statement saying the missile test apparently took place Sunday.

"We are continuing to look into this," Cooper said. "We are consulting closely with governments in the region. We have long been concerned about North Korea's missile program and activities, and urge North Korea to continue its moratorium on ballistic missile tests."

Sunday's test came one day before the opening of a nearly monthlong United Nations conference on the nuclear nonproliferation treaty. The U.N. convenes the meetings once every five years to review developments under the accord, from which North Korea withdrew in January 2003.

North Korea tested missiles in 2003, and in 1998, it test-fired a missile over Japan into the Pacific Ocean.

Japanese officials had no immediate response to reports of Sunday's test. But it is likely to have the biggest political impact in that country, said an international security expert from Harvard University.

"It's going to make the Japanese nervous," Jim Walsh told CNN on Sunday. "And it's going to put pressure on the Japanese prime minister."

Sen. Carl Levin, the top Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, said on "Late Edition" that Sunday's test shows the Bush administration's refusal to hold direct talks with Pyongyang is leading to an even greater nuclear threat.

The test, Levin said, is "additional, very discouraging evidence that this administration's policy towards North Korea is failing. We've had a lot of other evidence in the last four years -- the fact that they hprevious statements that North Korea has a "theoretical capability to produce a warhead and mate it with a missile."

"We have no information to suggest they have done so," Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said in a statement Sattalks are working 


WASHINGTON (AP) -- First lady Laura Bush stole the show with a surprise comedy routine that ripped President Bush and brought an audience that included much of official Washington and a dash of Hollywood to a standing ovation at a dinner honoring award-winning journalists.

The president began a speech late Saturday at the 91st annual White House Correspondents' Association dinner, but was quickly "interrupted" by his wife in an obviously planned ploy.

"Not that old joke, not again," she said to the delight of the audience. "I've been attending these dinners for years and just quietly sitting there. I've got a few things I want to say for a change."

The president sat down and she proceeded to note that he is "usually in bed by now" and said she told him recently, "If you really want to end tyranny in the world, you're going to have to stay up later. "

She outlined a typical evening: "Nine o'clock, Mr. Excitement here is sound asleep and I'm watching `Desperate Housewives'." Comedic pause. "With Lynne Cheney. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a desperate housewife."

The line earned particularly rambunctious applause from the area of the Washington Hilton hotel ballroom where actor James Denton from the hit ABC show sat.

Laura Bush added that she and her husband obviously were destined to be together as a couple because "I was the librarian who spent 12 hours a day in the library and yet somehow I met George."

The guest professional comedian, Cedric the Entertainer, next came to the microphone to deliver one-liners, but not before conceding the first lady was a hard act to follow.

Joining the Bushes were Vice President Dick Cheney and wife, Lynne. News organizations hosted show business and sports stars such as Goldie Hawn, Richard Gere, Jane Fonda, Mary Tyler Moore, tennis sisters Venus and Serena Williams and a few supermodels.

Award winners announced earlier this month: